Exercise 5 - Explainable
================
Samuel
2022-05-30

# Summary

**Questions**

-   What is complex contagion and how it’s different from simple
    contagion (refer to reading - Centola)

-   What does complex contagion mean for diffusion of behaviors in
    organization

-   How can we use the threshold models to better manage:

    -   Prosocial behavior in organization

    -   Learning

    -   Toxic or unproductive behaviors

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## **Difference between simple contagion and complex**

If we take the example of spreading fake news, simple contagion is the
thinking that you only need one person in connection with you to assume
that you would be “infected” by it. However, in many cases, you actually
need to be exposed to the virus (in this case the fake news) to actually
be “infected”. This idea of exposition in the network is called complex
contagion. In complex contagion, there is a threshold to be infected and
corresponds to the percentage of connections that are infected over the
total number of connections. In simple contagion, you only need one
connection to be infected so that means a threshold of 0%.

Furthermore, complex contagion has a different behavior from simple
contagion when talking about connections. Indeed, the more connections
there are in a network, the more the virus spreads when looking at a
simple contagion model. On the contrary, for a complex contagion model,
the more connections, the less susceptible a network can be infected.
That is because, the virus can’t infect people with many connections
that aren’t affected. Looking at it globally means that very few people
will get infected.

## Diffusion of behaviors in an organization

For an organization, this means that a very disconnected network with
subgroups will have very poor diffusion of behaviors. On the other end
of the spectrum, a very dense connected network will also have poor
diffusion of behaviors. That is because, each member will have
difficulty to be infected because of all his other connections that are
not. Depending on the threshold to be infected, this will mean that it
would be very hard for someone to adopt new behaviors. For an
organization, it is then best to have just the right amount of
connections to spread complex ideas. This means to have connected
subgroups with enough bridge between them to spread behaviors. This is
an equilibrium between bonds within groups and bridges between groups.

## How to use the threshold model to manage better

**Pro-social behaviors in organization**

f

**Learning**

**Toxic or unproductive behaviors**
